Media File Formats:

Media files are used to provide external resources for your program and are stored in
special file formats that represent the kind of media you wish to use:

  X : 3D Object File - use LOAD OBJECT
XOF : 3D Object File - use LOAD OBJECT
3DS : 3D Object File - use LOAD OBJECT
BMP : Bitmap File    - use LOAD BITMAP
AVI : Animation File - use LOAD ANIMATION
WAV : Sound File     - use LOAD SOUND
MID : Music File     - use LOAD MUSIC
ARR : Array File     - use LOAD ARRAY
TXT : Array File     - use LOAD ARRAY

Notes on conversion from other formats:

X File Format
-------------
Dark Basic loads 3D Objects using this file format. Many 3D tools do not save out 3D
object data using this 'DirectX file format'. You can use the DBConv.EXE tool that
comes with Dark Basic to convert the more common 3DS files to X files. Dark Basic
additionally supports direct loading of 3DS files if you are not concerned with the
additional loading time and file sizes required during 3DS importing.

BMP File Format
---------------
Dark Basic loads its bitmap graphics using this file format. One of the most common
file formats for the PC, BMP files can be saved by all popular art packages and other
graphic tools. The Paint program that came with Windows saves out images in the BMP
format.

AVI File Format
---------------
Dark Basic loads animation using this file format. Microsoft Video One codec is the
default AVI format used by Windows. All animation and production tools export AVI
animation files as standard and offer a good level of compression over quality.

WAV File Format
---------------
Dark Basic loads its sound effects using this file format. There are very few commonly
used sound formats, and WAV by far represents the most common variety. All sound 
effects libraries and tools work with this file format, and is a very common media type.

MID File Format
---------------
Dark Basic loads music using this file format. Though not the most popular format in
recent years, it's compact and flexible. There are millions of MID music files available
today from all over the internet and offers even kind of music imaginable.

ARR File Format
---------------
Dark Basic allows the import of text and numerical data in the form of ARR format files.
These files are directly loaded into arrays that have been created in a suitable format
to load the files. Ideally, these files are created using the save array command that
ensures the ability to snapshot the contents of an array and export it to a file.

Additionally, text files can be recognised as ARR format files for the import of text
data. You can use a utility such as Notepad to create your text files, and the data
can be loaded into a Dark Basic array. Text data ideally requires a single dimension
string array for loading. The text data will be seperated by lines into the array.

Another use for ARR files is to record program data and save game positions with a
single command, and restore them with a second command.
